In this exercise, you're tasked with suggesting ways to detect and
mitigate the attack tactics leveraged by hacker Holly against Mary.
So with special attention to initiation and the execution phases of the attack framework.
So we're looking at these two buckets here specifically.
Now the attacker we know leveraged spear phishing for initiation and also
leveraged user execution to make the attack happen
because in order for a spear phishing attack to work,
a user has to click on the e-mail.
So that's how we know which boxes we need to use.
From this attack framework,
you would start with initiation.
If we know that it was a spear phishing attack,
you'd go to spear phishing,
it included a link that she had to log into
and so we can assume that that's a spear phishing link.
If we click into this,
similar to what you saw in the lesson,
you get a lot of rich information on what a spear phishing link is,
what procedures have been used by various attack groups in this case.
If we keep scrolling down,
the question is around what our mitigation
tactics and detection techniques that can be used?
This is where you can find all of
that helpful information to pull together and answer for this solution.
We know that you can restrict web-based content,
you can use user training and so on to detect this.
Then if we look at the execution side of things,
we know that this required user intervention or user action.
So this is where you'd be exploring all of
the different attack tactics used here and you would
come to the conclusion based on knowing that it was user execution,
that that's the box that you need to be looking at here.
Once you click on "User Execution",
you get to the user execution page.
Similarly, you see a lot of information.
You can again go down to the bottom
here and learn what the mitigation and detection techniques are.
So in this case, there are some technical things that you can do to
mitigate this around application whitelisting, network intrusion prevention.
But then also again,
we've talked about throughout the course to this point that
user error can be huge and insider threats are huge.
So this user training is very important as well.
Then you can see more on how to detect this type of tactic as well.
So that's the solution for this exercise.